Updating securing apps and authorization documentation based on the adapter deprecation/removal plan (#21177)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/documentation/securing_apps/topics/oidc/recommendations.adoc

=== Recommendations

> This section describes some recommendations when security your applications with {project_name}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes some recommendations when securing your applications with {project_name}.
```

==== Validating access tokens

> If you need to manually validate access tokens issued by {project_name} you can invoke the <<_token_introspection_endpoint,Introspection Endpoint>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to manually validate access tokens issued by {project_name}, you can invoke the <<_token_introspection_endpoint,Introspection Endpoint>>.
```

The downside to this approach is that you have to make a network invocation to the {project_name} server.  This can be slow and possibly overload the
server if you have too many validation requests going on at the same time.  {project_name} issued access tokens are https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519[JSON Web Tokens (JWT)] digitally signed and encoded using https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7515[JSON Web Signature (JWS)].

> Because they are encoded in this way, this allows you to locally validate access tokens using the public key of the issuing realm.  You can either hard code the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because they are encoded in this way, you can locally validate access tokens using the public key of the issuing realm.  You can either hard code the
```

realm's public key in your validation code, or lookup and cache the public key using the <<_certificate_endpoint, certificate endpoint>> with the Key ID (KID) embedded within the

> JWS.  Depending on what language you code in, there are a multitude of third party libraries out there that can help you with JWS validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JWS.  Depending on what language you code in, many third party libraries exist and they can help you with JWS validation.
```

==== Redirect URIs

> When using the redirect based flows it's important to use valid redirect uris for your clients. The redirect uris should be as specific as possible. This
> especially applies to client-side (public clients) applications. Failing to do so could result in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the redirect based flows, be sure to use valid redirect uris for your clients. The redirect uris should be as specific as possible. This
especially applies to client-side (public clients) applications. Failing to do so could result in:
```

* Open redirects - this can allow attackers to create spoof links that looks like they are coming from your domain

> * Unauthorized entry - when users are already authenticated with {project_name} an attacker can use a public client where redirect uris have not be configured correctly to gain access by redirecting the user without the users knowledge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Unauthorized entry - when users are already authenticated with {project_name}, an attacker can use a public client where redirect uris have not be configured correctly to gain access by redirecting the user without the users knowledge
```

In production for web applications always use `https` for all redirect URIs. Do not allow redirects to http.

> There's also a few special redirect URIs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A few special redirect URIs also exist:
```

[[_installed_applications_url]]
`$$http://127.0.0.1$$`::

  This redirect URI is useful for native applications and allows the native application to create a web server on a random port that can be used to obtain the

>   authorization code. This redirect uri allows any port. Note that per https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8252#section-8.3[OAuth 2.0 for Native Apps] the use of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  authorization code. This redirect uri allows any port. Note that per https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8252#section-8.3[OAuth 2.0 for Native Apps], the use of
```

  `localhost` is *not* recommended and the IP literal `127.0.0.1` should be used instead.

[[_installed_applications_urn]]
`urn:ietf:wg:oauth:2.0:oob`::

>   If its not possible to start a web server in the client (or a browser is not available) it is possible to use the special `urn:ietf:wg:oauth:2.0:oob` redirect uri.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you cannot start a web server in the client (or a browser is not available), you can use the special `urn:ietf:wg:oauth:2.0:oob` redirect uri.
```

>   When this redirect uri is used {project_name} displays a page with the code in the title and in a box on the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When this redirect uri is used, {project_name} displays a page with the code in the title and in a box on the page.
```

>   The application can either detect that the browser title has changed, or the user can copy/paste the code manually to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The application can either detect that the browser title has changed, or the user can copy and paste the code manually to the application.
```

>   With this redirect uri it is also possible for a user to use a different device to obtain a code to paste back to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  With this redirect uri, a user can use a different device to obtain a code to paste back to the application.
```
